README.md, before:

![Logo](https://github.com/lontivero/Open.Nat/raw/gh-pages/images/logos/128.jpg)

Open.Nat.V2
======

Open.NAT is a lightweight and easy-to-use class library to allow port forwarding in NAT devices that support UPNP (Universal Plug & Play) and/or PMP (Port Mapping Protocol).


Goals
-----
NATed computers cannot be reached from outside and this is particularly painful for peer-to-peer or friend-to-friend software.
The main goal is to simplify communication amoung computers behind NAT devices that support UPNP and/or PMP providing a clean
and easy interface to get the external IP address and map ports and helping you to achieve peer-to-peer communication.

+ Tested with .NET  _YES_
+ Tested with Mono  _YES_

How to use?
-----------
With nuget :
> **Install-Package Open.Nat.V2**

Go on the [nuget website](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Open.Nat.V2/) for more information.

Example
--------

The simplest scenario:

```c#
var discoverer = new NatDiscoverer();
var device = await discoverer.DiscoverDeviceAsync();
var ip = await device.GetExternalIPAsync();
Console.WriteLine("The external IP Address is: {0} ", ip);
```

The following piece of code shows a common scenario: It starts the discovery process for a NAT-UPNP device and onces discovered it creates a port mapping. If no device is found before ten seconds, it fails with NatDeviceNotFoundException.


```c#
var discoverer = new NatDiscoverer();
var cts = new CancellationTokenSource(10000);
var device = await discoverer.DiscoverDeviceAsync(PortMapper.Upnp, cts);

await device.CreatePortMapAsync(new Mapping(Protocol.Tcp, 1600, 1700, "The mapping name"));
```

For more info please check the [Wiki](https://github.com/lontivero/Open.Nat/wiki)

Awesome software using Open.NAT
-------------
+ [War For The Overworld](https://wftogame.com/)
+ [OpenRA](http://www.openra.net/)
+ [Interstellar RIFT](http://www.interstellarrift.com/)
+ [The Kindred](http://thekindred.net/)

Documentation
-------------
+ Why Open.NAT? Here you have [ten reasons](https://github.com/lontivero/Open.NAT/wiki/Why-Open.NAT) that make Open.NAT a good candidate for you projects
+ [Visit the Wiki page](https://github.com/lontivero/Open.Nat/wiki)

Commit message:

Update README with fork details and library retargeting
Added information about the fork and updates made.

README.md, after:

![Logo](https://github.com/lontivero/Open.Nat/raw/gh-pages/images/logos/128.jpg)

Open.Nat.V2
======

Open.Nat.V2 is a lightweight and easy-to-use class library to allow port forwarding in NAT devices that support UPNP (Universal Plug & Play) and/or PMP (Port Mapping Protocol).

About this Fork
-----
The parent repository was archived last year, and I forked this to keep it going. I retargeted the Library to .NET Standard 2.0 (which supports .NET Framework 4.6.1 and newer) and removed a lot of the legacy .NET Framework 3.5 baggage. I also updated/reworked the Unit Tests, and the current build is passing all tests =) Enjoy!

Goals
-----
NATed computers cannot be reached from outside and this is particularly painful for peer-to-peer or friend-to-friend software.
The main goal is to simplify communication amoung computers behind NAT devices that support UPNP and/or PMP providing a clean
and easy interface to get the external IP address and map ports and helping you to achieve peer-to-peer communication.

+ Tested with .NET  _YES_
+ Tested with Mono  _YES_

How to use?
-----------
With nuget :
> **Install-Package Open.Nat.V2**

Go on the [nuget website](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Open.Nat.V2/) for more information.

Example
--------

The simplest scenario:

```c#
var discoverer = new NatDiscoverer();
var device = await discoverer.DiscoverDeviceAsync();
var ip = await device.GetExternalIPAsync();
Console.WriteLine("The external IP Address is: {0} ", ip);
```

The following piece of code shows a common scenario: It starts the discovery process for a NAT-UPNP device and onces discovered it creates a port mapping. If no device is found before ten seconds, it fails with NatDeviceNotFoundException.


```c#
var discoverer = new NatDiscoverer();
var cts = new CancellationTokenSource(10000);
var device = await discoverer.DiscoverDeviceAsync(PortMapper.Upnp, cts);

await device.CreatePortMapAsync(new Mapping(Protocol.Tcp, 1600, 1700, "The mapping name"));
```

For more info please check the [Wiki](https://github.com/lontivero/Open.Nat/wiki)

Awesome software using Open.NAT
-------------
+ [War For The Overworld](https://wftogame.com/)
+ [OpenRA](http://www.openra.net/)
+ [Interstellar RIFT](http://www.interstellarrift.com/)
+ [The Kindred](http://thekindred.net/)

Documentation
-------------
+ Why Open.NAT? Here you have [ten reasons](https://github.com/lontivero/Open.NAT/wiki/Why-Open.NAT) that make Open.NAT a good candidate for you projects
+ [Visit the Wiki page](https://github.com/lontivero/Open.Nat/wiki)
